Take a little bit of a break from React
and we're gonna talk about tools,
which seem to bother everyone but me.
I love tools.
That's why I've worked in DevTools for a very long time.
I've shown you enough vanilla JavaScript React
for you to know exactly what's happening
underneath the hood.
From here, we're gonna move into JSX,
which was a huge barrier to adoption for a lot of people,
especially early in the life of React,
where they're like, hey, we don't really wanna write
this compiled to JavaScript language.
It feels weird.
But we'll get there in just a second.
For now, we're going to set up all the tools
so that we can do that.
So the first thing is we're gonna use NPM.
I'm gonna use NPM for the life of this course.
Feel free to use YARN.
Previous versions of this course have used YARN before.
PNPM, you can see I have a call out to that one as well.
I think that's getting more and more popular.
But it's kinda hard to go wrong with just straight up NPM.
If you're not familiar with NPM,
it does not stand for Node Package Manager,
but it kinda stands for Node Package Manager.
That's what they say.
They say it doesn't stand for that.
And then they just finish the sentence
and don't say anything else.
It's kind of annoying.
Anyway, it is the package manager for Node.js.
It allows you to install these things
directly off of the NPM registry,
which is now owned by GitHub,
which is in turn owned by Microsoft.
It allows you to do things like NPM install React,
things like that.
So in our project, let's go do the first thing here.
You can go ahead and stop serve.
We won't be using that anymore.
That's Control C, if you're not familiar with Linux.
All right, so I'm gonna do NPM init-y.
The dash y just says,
I don't wanna answer any of your dumb questions.
Just generate a file for me.
But if you wanna answer the questions,
just leave off the dash y.
And you'll see that you'll get out of here
a package JSON here.
And this allows you to start saving things to your project.
The reason why this is useful to us
is that we can say NPM install React.
It'll go install React for us
and it'll store the version of React
that we're using in the project.
So that when I share this with you later,
you can go install it
and you'll get the same version of React
or a compatible version of React that I'm using.
But I don't have to save React in my repo.
So we don't have to have a trillion copies of React
floating out on GitHub, right?
We get one copy of React.
And like if React has a critical vulnerability,
like stuff like that happens,
they're able to patch it
so that next time you go to install,
you'll get the patched version,
not the insecure version.
Okay, hopefully that worked for you.
If not, you'll probably have to go to the Node.js page
and install Node, however you choose to do that.
But again, make sure you end up on Node 20.6 or above, please.
Feel free to use pnpm.
It does relatively the same thing.
I'd be very, very confident
that it would work just as well.
Yarn, less so these days.
I haven't used Yarn in a long time.
You might've noticed when I've been writing code here
that like if I do something like this and I,
let's close this, come on.
So if I do like this and I put a bunch of space
and then whenever I hit save,
oh, it doesn't like, did I?
It's a slash on line 27.
Oh, there you go, thank you.
It just fixes all of my spacing for me automatically.
I cannot be bothered to handle spacing anymore.
Like that process in my brain
that thinks about code formatting has just been shut down
and at this point it's been shut down for so long
that it's atrophied.
So I literally cannot fathom how to write
well-formatted code anymore
because Prettier just does it for me automatically
every single time.
So all Prettier is is the code formatter.
It takes in unformatted code and it spits out formatted code.
It's my favorite tool in JavaScript ever.
It's literally changed the way that I write code
and blessed be to the Prettier gods.
So let's go ahead and start this project for Prettier.
All you have to do is create a file called .prettierrc
and then I put the very controversial empty object
as my config, which is just saying use all the defaults.
My least favorite thing is bike shedding
about code formatting.
I hate it.
I have been in so many meetings over the years
with like we should be using tabs versus spaces
or commas at the end or not commas
or automated semicolon insertion or not,
all those different things.
And my message to you is I can't fathom any caring for it.
I just, it's my least favorite thing to talk about.
So that's why I put this empty object here
is like whatever someone else chooses for me, I don't care.
As long as it gets formatted in a uniform way, I don't care.
So that's what that is.
I have a VS code extension here.
So if you're following along in VS code,
I'm gonna suggest you install the Prettier code formatter.
There's several, so make sure you get the one
that's officially from Prettier
and then go into one of your JS files
and just you can hit, it's either shift command P on a Mac
or control shift P on Linux and Windows
and then choose format document.
If this is your first time doing it, it's gonna say like,
hey, you need to choose a formatter and just choose Prettier
and then that'll set that up so that that formats
your documents and then if you hit command comma
or control comma and then you wanna do format on save
and just make sure that that one's checked.
Then you're ready to roll and then you'll get exactly
the same thing so you can just like mess up formatting,
make it terrible, let's de-indent everything
because that just, it makes everyone able
to look at that code and you just save it
and it just fixes itself.
I know I want everyone to use VS code
but I also used to work with the Primogen.
So not everyone's gonna use VS code, it turns out, right?
So you need to set up all of your projects
to work with anyone's tools, not just your own tool.
So let's go ahead and set up Prettier to work with everybody.
npm install dash dash save dev
or if you're lazy like me, npm i dash capital D
is the exact same thing and we're gonna put Prettier.
And you can see here, we have a dev dependency, right?
So this is a, this only needs to be installed
in development environments, not for production environments.
That's what the dev dependency means.
And then under scripts, we're going to do this.
I'm gonna set format and you're gonna do Prettier dash dash
write and we're just gonna say,
do everything in the source directory
and then you need to do JS, JSX, TS, TSX,
whatever file formats you want it to look at.
That's probably a pretty good list.
If you have, we're not gonna have any TypeScript in this.
You could leave the TypeScript stuff out,
but JS, JSX, CSS, you could put HTML in here as well.
Prettier doesn't work with everything,
but they're actually expanding it
to a lot of other languages now.
Make sure you need a comma there at the end.
And now we should be able to run npm run format.
That's what the scripts are for.
It's basically like, please remember these bash commands
for me so later, so I don't have to remember
how to write this.
You can just say npm run format and it'll run that for you.
Oh, and I needed a closing quote here.
Make sure you have the quotes here.
The backslash is just an escape character, right?
Reason why you want the quotes here
is that you don't want your shell to do the file expansion.
You want the actual, you want that passed in literally
as a string to Prettier.
So that it can go do all the finding of the correct files.
Now mine's already running, right?
Because every time I save the file, it's running,
but you can see, so it says unchanged here.
But if I had something to change there, it would say.